hey this is presto Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions does
anybody else watch Marvel's agents of
shield in season 5 episode 16 one
character beliefs fate is on her side
and she cannot die she wants to prove
this with an experiment there are four
cups filled with liquid three of the
cups contain water the other Cup has a
liquid that looks and smells like water
but is actually a fast-acting lethal
poison the character will select three
of the cups at random to drink what is
the probability she will live can you
figure it out give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for a solution so I'm going to
explain a few ways to solve this problem
the first method is to consider the cup
not drink after drinking three cups
exactly one cup remains this Cup is
equally likely to be any of the four
cups so it has a one in four chance of
being poison and this means there's a
1/4 chance that the character survives
another way to solve this problem is
direct calculation there's a three in
four chance of surviving the first cup
because three of the cups are water and
one of the cups is poison conditional
and surviving the first cup there is a
two-thirds chance of surviving the
second Cup as there would be two cups of
water remaining out of three cups in
total now conditional and surviving the
first two cups there is a one in two
chance of surviving the third Cup as
there would be one water cup remaining
out of two to get the chance of
surviving the person has to drink all
three cups that are water so we
multiplied these odds the probability is
surviving as 3/4 times 2/3 times 1/2
which equals 1/4
finally we can solve this using
combinations there are 4 choose 3 which
equals 4 ways to choose the 3 cups to
drink there's only 3 choose 3 or one way
to choose the 3 water cups you have to
pick all three water cups thus there is
a 1 in 4 chance to pick only the water
cups and live so notice this 1 in 4
chance of surviving is pretty large
it's like someone guessing 2 coin flips
in a row and then claiming the test
proves clairvoyance I'm thrilled to see
this kind of math problem in a popular
TV show and I hope this trend continues
should any TV writers ever want some
good ideas perhaps even more challenging
problems they're welcome to consult any
of the four hundred-plus videos on my
youtube channel I do get email requests
of this sort and I would be happy to
help did you figure it out thanks for
watching these math videos which can be
watched for free on YouTube inspire and
build confidence for people around the
world and they have over a hundred
million views please subscribe for free
to get the news videos and email me a
puzzle or mat topic brush and mind your
decisions calm if you so choose you can
check out my merchandise which is listed
at teespring you can check out my books
which are listed in the video
description and you can support me on
patreon for exclusive rewards thanks for
watching and thanks for your support